.TH BGRUN\-DAEMON 1 2026-06-11 "bgrun" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bgrun-daemon \- Background process runner daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bgrun-daemon
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBbgrun-daemon\fR is the background daemon for the bgrun process runner.
It is typically launched automatically by the \fBbgrun\fR CLI on demand and
should not be started manually.

The daemon:
- Listens on a Unix domain socket for NDJSON commands from the CLI
- Spawns and manages child processes (piped or PTY)
- Monitors job readiness, resource usage, and runtime limits
- Persists job state to disk for crash recovery
- Re-adopts orphaned jobs on restart
- Auto-shuts down after a configurable idle timeout (default: 60s)
- Handles SIGTERM/SIGINT/SIGHUP by killing all child processes and exiting

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B BGRUN_IDLE_TIMEOUT
Idle timeout in seconds before auto-shutdown (default: 60). Set to 0 to disable.
.TP
.B BGRUN_LOG
Tracing filter for daemon log output (e.g. "info", "debug", "warn").
.TP
.B BGRUN_DAEMONIZED
Internal flag; do not set manually.
.TP
.B XDG_RUNTIME_DIR
Socket and state directory location. Falls back to /tmp/bgrun-<uid> if unset.

.SH STATE DIRECTORY
The daemon stores job metadata and logs under:
.PP
.RS
$XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/bgrun/   (or /tmp/bgrun-<uid>/)
.RE
.PP
Structure:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
jobs/<uuid>/meta.json  \-\- durable job record
.IP \(bu
jobs/<uuid>/status.json \-\- job status (state, exit code)
.IP \(bu
jobs/<uuid>/stdout.log  \-\- captured stdout/stderr/pty output
.IP \(bu
daemon.sock             \-\- Unix domain socket
.IP \(bu
daemon.pid              \-\- PID file
.IP \(bu
daemon.log              \-\- daemon tracing output
.IP \(bu
audit.log               \-\- command audit trail
.RE

.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGTERM, SIGINT, SIGHUP
Graceful shutdown: kills all child processes (SIGTERM + 3s grace + SIGKILL),
removes the socket file, and exits.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bgrun (1)
